# lattice

gemtext, over Urbit.

A small, fast browser and publisher for gemtext — but the pages live on the Urbit network. Every page is addressed as urb://~ship/path and travels peer-to-peer between ships. No DNS, no web server, no host in the middle. Native on Android, Linux, macOS, and Windows.

(You may well be reading this page through lattice right now.)

## How it works

lattice is two pieces: a tiny Gall agent on your ship, and a native app you point at it.

* The desk — %lattice publishes the gemtext in your ship's /pub directory to the Urbit namespace and serves it to other ships over remote scry. It also follows files you subscribe to.
* The app — browse, read, and edit anywhere. Android and desktop, one codebase. Live notifications when a followed file changes.

Drop a file in /pub, and anyone on the network can read it — instantly, straight from your ship:

```
# ~nisfeb's notebook

Welcome. Everything here is a gemtext file in /pub.

=> urb://~nisfeb/notes/urbit  Notes on Urbit
=> urb://~nisfeb/now          What I'm doing now
```

## What it does

* Browse urb:// — read gemtext published by any ship, peer-to-peer. The bytes come straight from the author's ship, not a server.
* Publish — anything in /pub/*.gmi is instantly readable as urb://~you/that/path. Edit it from inside the app.
* Built-in editor — write your pages without leaving lattice. Plain by default; optional vim keybindings.
* Browser tabs — multiple urb:// pages at once, a keystroke for a new one, bookmarks for your regulars.
* Follow & subscribe — follow ships to see what they publish; subscribe to a file and get a live push when it changes.
* Discovery — find other lattice publishers among the ships in your %contacts.
* Copy to your ship — like a bookmark, but real: pull a remote file onto your own ship.
* Fully themeable — colors and fonts are yours to set.

## What it isn't

* Not a host. Bring your own ship — yours, a friend's, or a hosted one.
* Not the HTTP web. Pages are Urbit-native and move between ships over remote scry, not over DNS and HTTP.
* Not on the app stores. Sideload from GitHub Releases.

## Privacy

The only server lattice talks to is your ship. No analytics, no third-party SDKs, no telemetry. Your +code and session cookie are never sent in cleartext to a remote ship and are stored owner-only at rest. Everything in /pub is public by design; nothing else on your ship is exposed.

## Get it

=> https://github.com/nisfeb/lattice/releases/latest  Download (Android · Linux · macOS · Windows)
=> https://github.com/nisfeb/lattice  Source on GitHub
=> https://urbit.org/overview/running-urbit  New to Urbit? Boot a ship here

You'll need the %lattice desk running on your ship, then point the app at it with your ship's URL and +code.

---

Built by ~nisfeb. PolyForm Noncommercial 1.0.0 licensed.
=> https://polyformproject.org/licenses/noncommercial/1.0.0  License
